in North Carolina today a preliminary
autopsy said a little-known lung disease
combined with other factors probably
killed former football star Reggie White
white was killed it was just 43 when he
died yesterday the lung disease is
called sarcoidosis and information that
experts say is rarely fatal especially
in one so young a white also suffered
from another condition that could have
played a role one that is not at all
rare and can be cured
Hamilton's Robert Honda has that report
Reggie White was known as the Minister
of Defense not only for his ability on
the football field but because he was in
fact an ordained minister known for his
work in the community outstanding human
being and besides being a great football
player we all know about he was just a
great human being that had a tremendous
influence on this on this country in the
game Kerry a preliminary autopsy report
indicates the 43 year old white died
from a respiratory disease combined with
other health problems and that sleep
apnea may have been a factor my first
thought was it have to be sleep apnea
can't think of any other thing that it
would be dr. Rafael polio is an
associate professor at the Stanford
Sleep Disorders Clinic the Clinic
diagnoses and treats patients with sleep
disorders or medical problems that may
occur during sleep
dr. polio says sleep apnea is a syndrome
that causes people to stop breathing in
their sleep the brain essentially nice
leaping and breathing and prefers to
sleep instead of to breathe and what's
happening is that the throat narrows
when we're sleeping and when we're
inhaling when the throat is relaxing it
actually in closing collapse as the
tongue falls back and the size of our
throat come come together
dr. Pelayo says white was an obvious
candidate for sleep apnea because it is
prevalent among heavyset middle-aged men
especially African Americans and Latinos
the first time it would be the snoring
is somebody snoring that's the first
sign of something is wrong
the second sign would be having non
refreshing sleep waking up tired so you
snore you wake up tired you think
hitting older when in fact it's because
you're not getting adequate sleep
the Stanford sleep clinic is currently
conducting research into how sleep apnea
affects other health conditions as well
as learning and memory dr. polio said
the clinic since its condolences to
White's family
but said his death could also raise
public awareness about sleep apnea we
definitely know increase awareness of
sleep apnea because it's a common
disease that's treatable and the fact
it's curable makes you count your days I
mean it just every day is precious my
guy 43 years old that has done so many
things and has so much ahead of him all
of a sudden passes and it's I know it's
hard to deal with it's hard for all of
us to do it because of Reggie White's
complicated health condition the medical
examiner says it could take several
months to determine a final cause of
death Robert Honda KTVU channel 2 News